---
layout: custom
---

# Whose Voice in the COVID-19 Pandemic Discussion: a network actor analysis based on Weibo-COV corpus



##### _RESEARCH BACKGROUND_

As the COVID-19 pandemic spreads rapidly around the world, people are requested to maintain "social distance" and "stay at home." Extensive social interactions subsequently moved to online space. People are using social media posts to share information, express opinions and seek help during the coronavirus pandemic. During the duration of this public health emergency, people used social networks to understand, disseminate and produce a large amount of epidemic-related information. On the one hand, it helped to make the epidemic information known to the public and to jointly protest. On the other hand, a large amount of false information confuses and misleads the public. . The phenomenon of complicated information about the COVID-19 epidemic is called an "infodemic" by the World Health Organization. The information epidemic refers to the excessive amount of information online and offline. This information is usually mixed with false and untrue elements (mis information, disinformation and mal-information) in anti-epidemic information. It can be quickly achieved with the help of information technologies such as the Internet, mobile phones and social media. spread, causing public confusion, panic and distrust.

As the main channel for people's social interaction during the COVID-19 epidemic, social media has played an important role in the dissemination and diffusion of relevant information. In the empirical research on this information epidemic, researchers either focus on the diffused information content itself and discuss the characteristics and impact of false information; or they focus on the production subjects of the information epidemic and analyze the impact of multiple subjects on the evolution of public opinion. . The basis of multiple actors in the social media field is the "new news ecosystem" composed of existing professional media, institutional media, self-media and platform media. In this system, multiple actors participate together and diverse news practices coexist. Liu Peng pointed out that during the epidemic, the voices of ordinary users converged, creating an open information flow, breaking the structured news field controlled by institutional media, and forming an information environment where "the whole world is talking" and multiple voices collide. Wang Haiyan also pointed out that internet celebrity intellectuals, as the “middle level”, play an important role in helping nationalism ferment on social media.

In the context of diverse public information dissemination discourse subjects, intertwined rationality and emotion in discourse texts, and complex issues, it is worth exploring the analysis of diverse actors represented by different types of media, social media opinion leaders, and official government accounts in the information epidemic. The problem. Existing examinations of this media information dissemination still remain at the theoretical level of agenda setting, indicating the connection between party media, market-oriented media, social media opinion leaders and the public agenda, but for more detailed issue competition relationships and actors Influence logic and causal relationship inference are relatively lacking in detailed analysis and in-depth analysis.

Reflection and re-examination of the COVID-19 epidemic, a "critical moment in human history," awaits detailed and in-depth discussions in relevant research. The COVID-19 epidemic, as an information dissemination event, has greatly increased people's dependence on relevant information. This study uses Weibo-COV, a large-scale text mining data with tens of millions of levels, to analyze the actor network in the epidemic discussion and overcome the problem of Issues of underrepresentation in small samples and measurement bias in self-report questionnaires. At the same time, computational social science methods are used to conduct longitudinal modeling of text data, and the influence relationship between different actor networks is explored from perspectives such as network amplification and agenda setting. This provides insights into the relationship between actor networks, classic communication theory, and emerging computing technologies. The possibility of connection enriches the research perspective on information epidemics, and the research has certain academic value. At the same time, this study attempts to provide a certain practical reference for information dissemination paths and false information governance in public health events.

Therefore, the research question of this article is: How do multiple actors on social media (e.g., media, opinion leaders, official government accounts) use their network structure to influence the evolution of public discussion networks during the COVID-19 epidemic? This study attempts to use actor network theory to treat the social media public communication network shaped by the connections and interactions of multiple actors as a "black box" for analysis. Drawing on the "network amplification" and agenda-setting perspectives proposed by Yini Zhang, we use computational social science methods and machine learning and other technologies to analyze the role of different actors in this process of social shaping and network generation.

##### _Literature Review_

###### **Actor Network Theory**

"Actor-Network-Theory" (ANT) originated from the Science and Technology Studies (STS) tradition in the 1980s. Its basic starting point is any given social "reality" is all products of the interaction of a series of complex relationships (ANT calls them "networks"). In these complex relationship networks, there are both human actors in the traditional sociological sense and all nonhuman actors (such as technology and artifacts). When actors in a network (including human actors and non-human actors) form an "association", ANT believes that a given social field can be configured. Understanding the social shaping of technology is to examine the dynamic relationships between technology and its networks of practices. Looking further, the starting point of ANT is how technological objects themselves construct social links: First, there is no a priori "essential determination" for technological objects ("non-human beings"). The understanding of technology must be placed in the "network" in which the technical object itself is located, that is, observing its practical construction process in the network; secondly, the prerequisite for a network to be constructed is the existence of various A "coalition" composed of actors (including both human actors and non-human actors, such as "technical objects"). When the will between actors is stabilized through transformation, ANT believes that a network becomes a "black-box"; again, the power of each actor in the network is realized through "translation" What is accomplished is to create differences, and the wishes of other actors are presented through "transformation" rather than "representation"; finally, the task of social science research is to open the "black box" and show the connections in the established network of actors and deployment, that is, the “action trajectories” of different actors.

The researcher first opened the door for ANT to enter news research in the study of news innovation. Subsequent research went beyond the aspect of innovation and applied it more generally to the study of news production practice. Viewing news production as a network of actors has powerful epistemological consequences, a perspective that goes beyond the specific scope of journalistic innovation to discuss the interactions among multiple actors in everyday journalistic practices more generally. Existing research includes both overall research on the newsroom level and examination of some more specific production practices, which has formed a research hotspot focusing on "news networks".

"Translation" is the core concept in ANT. Latour believes that any actor is a translator, and any information and conditions will be transformed through actors. The translation process includes four steps: problem definition, interest stimulation, member recruitment, and mobilization. Translation establishes connections between actors, who continuously switch issues and interests to gain mutual understanding. Problem definition mainly involves identifying core actors and common goals. Core actors are followers of network construction. By discussing the obstacles and interests of each actor in this process, ANT believes that reasonable translation can connect actors together and build a relatively stable network.

Some scholars have used actor networks as a theoretical perspective and linked them with agenda setting to explain the risks and governance of public opinion networks in the context of the heterogeneous demands of multiple actors. The use of actor network theory to explain the evolution and generation of discussion networks in emergencies is considered to have good applicability. First of all, from the perspective of actors, the "human" factor mainly includes the following types of heterogeneous actors: ordinary netizens (individuals/communities), opinion leaders or Internet influencers, platform media and mainstream media, government and policy formulation From the perspective of "non-human" factors, emotional contagion, technical tools, institutional disciplines, etc. can all be regarded as heterogeneous actors participating in the evolution of the network. ANT abandons preconceived judgments about subject participation in the action process, leaving ample space for the fluid and ever-changing identification of communication practitioners. Secondly, the translation process such as problem presentation, benefit conferment, recruitment and mobilization also presents the operating logic of heterogeneous actors in the actor network, providing an open map for further understanding of public discussion networks under emergencies.

###### **Network Amplification**

This study will use the perspectives of network amplification and agenda setting to understand the actions and influence logic of multiple actors in the COVID-19 discussion network.

In the field of communication, amplification can generally be defined as the process of increasing the exposure of a specific idea, object, or person and directing public attention. Mass media have long practiced amplification activities, including agenda setting or media hype. Network amplification on social media is both a mechanism for attracting public attention and a process of information dissemination shaped by online social networks. Network amplification is defined as the sharing of similar or common information by like-minded elites, highlighting the interrelationships and interactions between elite information. Yini Zhang views social media amplification as a mechanism that affects public attention and a diffusion process that forms the structure of online social networks. Elites on social media can drive information dissemination and direct public attention because they have large and loyal networks of followers. This layered and homogeneous network structure creates a network that can influence elite messaging and its effects. environment.

